<h1>Maijidata</h1>
<h3>Background</h3>
<p>
The core objective of the WSTF is to assist in the provision of water and sanitation services to communities without adequate water services in the country, priority being given to poor and disadvantaged rural and urban residents. The leading motif of the organisation is thus The path out of poverty begins with clean water and sanitation. The Urban Projects Concept (UPC) is only targeting low income urban areas that lie within the service area of licensed Water Service Providers (WSPs). MajiData was developed to understand the current access levels to water and sanitation services in rural informal areas.</p>
<p>
Since the launch of the h2.0 programme, Water Services Trust Fund has collected detailed data on access to water and sanitation for over a thousand informal areas in Kenya. Analysed data has been made available through majidata.go.ke recently, particularly in order to give potential service providers accurate background data on which to base their proposals for service delivery through the fund. Though the aim of disseminating data for potential service providers has been achieved, the current tool was not setup for analysis or benchmarking of the vast amount of data collected. For that reason, Upande was contracted to repackage MajiData indicators and to allow comparison of one area against another, or even across the entire county, province or country. A first version of this tool has been developed together with WSTF. </p>
